PERSON OF COLOR
Cynthia Tee: Person of color, for me, means
not white.
Varisha Khan: A person of color is someone
who, I guess very simply is not white.
Jerrell Davis: People know what we mean, we
mean that we ain't white.
Lorena Gonzalez: Person of color is an inclusive
term that I think provides a less pejorative
way to define minority. I don't like the word
“minority” because it immediately has
a sense of disempowerment.
Jerrell: Even that term, the term “minority,”
is so like contextually based. Because like
on Earth, there’s way more people of color
than there are white people. Like 80 percent
of Earth are people of color. Like, let's
embrace our differences without having to
like create labels that have like this contextual
superiority or inferiority to them.
Darrell Hillaire: Yeah, it was embarrassing
as a kid. You're made to feel embarrassed
for being a person of color. That means somebody's
looking down on you.
Autumn Bennett: I think it's just like a way
to like avoid saying black, because suddenly
black is offensive. People stumble when they
try to say, you know like, “Oh, she's Bl... Afr…”
I'm black! I feel like it's like
taking over where "colored" left off.
Jerrell: Like bro, I'm not a load of laundry.
It's like, do you wanna be colored, called colored.
Like look, if somebody called me
colored, if a white person call me colored,
we're having a problem.
Michael Dixon: Don't call me that. I'm black.
Don't call me African American. Because I'm black.
Those are political terms.
Tariqa Waters: To say I'm black and to then
identify other people as people of color are
two very separate things. For a white person
to say a person of color, it’s really easy
to just, it's a politically correct term that
is getting overused. And that's here in Seattle.
I go to Atlanta, I'm black, you know, I go
to D.C. I'm black.
Greg Rickel: I have to admit I struggle with
what terms to use and when. And you know there's
some impersonality in saying “person of
anything.”
Tariqa: There's just such a wealth of that
that gets overlooked and generalized in the
term “person of color.”
Louis Chude-Sokei: Person of color is a term
that I know I gravitate more to than black,
simply because even within the black world
there are people who are black who don't see
themselves as black because black means African
American. And so person of color is a broader,
more inclusive term.
Lorena: I don't think it's intended to devalue
what your own self-identification might be.
I think it's more of a construct to recognize
we share more in common in terms of oppression
and difficulties in accessing opportunity
as a collective.
Rachael DeCruz: I identify as a woman of color.
I feel like I fit into a pretty unique, privileged
space in the world, because you look at me
and you know that I'm not white, right? But
you don't know exactly what I am. My skin
color like is seen as less threatening than
someone who's darker than me.
Duck Bae: I personally don't identify as a
person of color, because I think it comes
with inherent disadvantages that I myself
haven't faced in the same way. Sure, there
are disadvantages with being Asian American
but they, quite literally, pale in comparison.
They tend to be oddly much more positive things.
And I haven't been associated with, I don't
think anyone's ever associated me with a life
of crime.
Jerrell: It conflates all non-white people,
and so then people assume that like there's
a blanket experience of all people of color.
Like “Oh you're Korean, I’m black, we
being held down by the man.” And she’s
like, “Not really.”
Duck: It also might be my way of conveniently
distancing myself from everything. If I don't
tie myself into it, if I put myself on the
side of advantage, then it kind of enables
me to kind of break away from the conflict
between black and white and I'm like, oh no
guys, this isn't for me like I'm not a person
of color. And if I'm not a person of color
then I guess I might just end up an aggressor
or a bystander that chooses to do nothing
about changing the status quo.
Cynthia: Chinese people I think in general
when it comes to issues of racism, even if
we have a lot of cultural institutional racism
ourselves, tend to be like kind of neutral
in this particular space all the time. Being
a person of color, meaning non-white, helps
me identify with not being part of the majority.
But I'm not necessarily a minority either.
Autumn: It doesn't really help if you're trying
to, like you know, ID a suspect or something
like that. Like that's kind of vague, “It
was a person of color!” White people still
have color to their skin, like there's olive
shades and really porcelain shades and all in between.
Darrell: We're all people of color, every
one of us.
Greg: You know, I could argue in an abstract
way that we, you know, we're all colorful
people and we're all persons of diversity.
We have a lot of richness in each one of us.
But we all know what it means when we hear
that. It's somebody not white. And so I struggle
with it a little bit, but I have to admit
I use it, just because it seems like a term
that works in discussion and I don't know
that it's right, but I do use it.
JOIN THE CONVERSATION